---
layout: post
title: The bondage of free thought
permalink: The-bondage-of-free-thought
published: true
categories:
- theology
---

The modern (or "postmodern") world has made a hazardous claim, one that
defies the logic in which it pretends to have its foundations.

The postmodern world has declared that all things are relative; there
are no absolutes.

Morality, says the world, is subjective, and as such should be limited
to a personal level. There is forever an outcry against the followers of
our Unchanging God: "stop forcing your morality on me!" If morality is
subjective, it is impossible for anything to be right or wrong; it is
impossible for sin to exist.

In this, postmodernists claim to be "free" from the confines of simple
morality or religion. They claim that they have emancipated themselves
from the law.

And yet, they clamor for this law; they plead for a government to rule
and permit or outlaw certain behaviors. "Murder is wrong," they cry. "I
have been cheated! I have been wrongly denied my rights!" They demand
certain benefits that they find preferable, certain advantages that they
find favorable.

Can they not see the error? To declare that one thing is preferable is
to say that all other things are not! To vehemently insist that there
are no absolutes is to loudly declare their existence!

In this way, the bondage of the mind has taken the guise of "free
thought." Those who reject the refuge of mystery are no longer free to
leave anything unknown; they must bear their self-made burden to declare
and explore all.

As Chesterton says, "it is the logician who seeks to get the heavens in
his head. And it is his head that splits."

How free is the Christian, who does not declare himself to be a
sufficient source of knowledge! He is lifted of the burden of knowledge,
resting in the omniscience of his Creator.

How free is the Christian, who does not bind himself by every man's
fallen state, but rather shackles himself to the wide-open perfection of
Christ!

True freedom is *not* in having control over all the earth; true freedom
lies in knowing that himself and all the earth are controlled by an
infallible Perfect Lord, who rules justly and righteously.

As Christ gives us the key of submission that unshackles our chains of
dominion, let us quickly seek to unbind those who remain in the
lamentable slavery to their own ways.

