---
layout: post
title: on love and the lost
permalink: on-love-and-the-lost
published: true
categories:
- theology
---

> "If I speak with the tongue of men and angels but have not love, I am
> a noisy gong or clanging cymbal" --- 1 Corinthians 13:1

It is better, to botch Tennyson, to have love for the lost than never to
have love at all.

Without this love, as Paul says, our words of evangelism --- though
brilliant and persuasive --- become like meaningless noise.

The reason for this is that we follow an order of love. For God
demonstrated his love for us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ
died for us. God so *loved* the world, (as we've often heard), that he
gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believes in him shall not
perish, but have eternal life.

Without this love, there would be no eternal sacrifice to repay the
unpayable debt and fulfill the impossible standard of perfection.

What is meant by "this love?" What sort of love are we to show? Love
itself is certainly an overloaded word in our language --- it has no
less than four Greek equivalents.

The sort of love we show to the lost world is certainly not the sort
that stems from any sense of charity, for charity itself extends from
condescension. Though we be forgiven, we are no less criminal than the
lost world itself.

Nor again should our essential love flow out of any great admiration of
humanity, though this love be necessarily towards all humankind; man is
a fallen low creature, having been designed perfectly and afterward
continually rejecting our original form --- the clay rebelling against
the potter with regards to its final shape.

Instead, this mysterious form of love should stem in a sense from a sort
of camaraderie; as the survivors of a shipwreck may cling together. This
is indeed a fitting analogy, since the one survivor, finding a rescue
ship, is not oft hesitant to deliver the joyful news of deliverance to
his fellow oceanic refugees.

It is in *this* way that the Christian should lovingly share the Gospel
with his fellow eternally-displaced members of a species shipwrecked on
the desolate island of the temporal universe.

