---
layout: post
title: the burden of proof
permalink: the-burden-of-proof
published: true
categories:
- theology
---

Historically, three questions have burned in men's minds: "who am I?",
"where do I come from?", and "what is my purpose (for existing)?"

For the Christian, these are simple questions to answer: "I am a child
and servant of God; I am created by Him for the purpose of His glory."
We know these things because God tells us.

How do we know that God is? Because we are told in Scripture, and
Scripture is the Word of God.

It all seems very circular. And certainly, a Christian may cite his or
her relationship with the eternal Father and Creator, but that is not
something that can be proven. Even among humanity, relationships are
impossible to prove in any unassailable way --- I can see both you and
your alleged friend, but I cannot prove that you may share the bonds of
friendship. Certainly, I can see how you behave towards one another, and
it may be consistent with the actions of close friends. But these
actions may also be consistent with the actions of those wishing to wear
friendship as a mask. You can assert your relationship, but you cannot
prove it. To believe your assertion, I must take your word for it.

This taking of one's word without empirical evidence is called faith.
When you tell me that you are close friends with another person, I must
either accept what you say on faith, or choose to disbelieve you.

This sort of acceptance is core to Christianity or to any other
worldview. If I accept Islam, I must accept it on faith, since I cannot
know what Mohammed may or may not have seen in a vision. If I accept
Atheism, I must accept it on faith, since I cannot empirically prove
that there is no god. If I accept Christianity, I must accept it on
faith, since I cannot give tangible evidence that Jesus Christ was the
son of God, nor that his death cleansed my sins.

Why then do so many clamor for evidence? If these things are all taken
on faith, why do men continue to search for something to analyze?

Because in any matter of faith, there are two options: to believe or to
disbelieve. The sinful heart of man is forever a skeptic of Christ ---
until Christ himself changes that heart.

For this reason, the unrepentant world scoffs at Christians, those who
have accepted on faith the claims of an ancient Scripture, and who have
felt the unprovable calling in their souls to trust an inevidential God,
who cannot be understood by human faculties of reason.

The world attacks Christianity because it is, in its response to those
fundamental inquiries of existence, unreasonable. This manic
unreasonable quality is what makes it correct.

And yet, that very same mania that illogically grants the Christian
sanity drives all others to madness --- to pools of cosmic chemicals in
a void with no origin of their own, to infinitesimal energy suddenly
exploding to fill and become the vast universe, or to a sort of
"afterword" to the Scriptures that annulls the very words that precede
it.

It should come as no surprise to Christians that Scripture itself
forewarns of this rampant intellectual anarchy:

> "For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to
> us who are being saved it is the power of God." --- 1 Corinthians 1:18

Christians are those who cast off the ridiculous burdens of proof and
evidence and instead take on the perfectly rational mind of the child;
we receive the kingdom of heaven "like a child," so that we may enter
it. (Mark 10:15)

For Christ's burden is much lighter than the burden of proof we so often
wish to wear --- and his yoke is easy.

Only with the childlike mind and heart can sing, as so many of us have
long ago,

> "Jesus loves me this I know,  
>  For the Bible tells me so."

