---
layout: post
title: Law and Order
permalink: Law-and-Order
published: true
categories:
- theology
---

*"For when were controlled by the sinful nature, the sinful passions
aroused by the law were at work in our bodies, so that we bore fruit for
death." --- Romans 7:5*

Aroused by the law? How does the law, which is good, arouse sinful
passions within us?

Is it that without the presence of the law to state that something is
sinful, it wouldn't be sinful? Perhaps.

The more probably correct target of blame lies squarely on man's sinful
nature. Rebellion; a desire to place ourselves higher than the Most High
One and declare ourselves the "captain of our lives" and final
decision-maker. We long so deeply, from the Garden of Eden, to be equal
with God that we disobey Him, seeking to elevate our will to the same
level as His.

The Law as a separate, standalone entity does not create sin any more
than light creates darkness; the presence of light reveals the presence
of darkness. Without the one, we would know nothing else and thus think
nothing of its opposite.

The Law is good, but it is not the final goal; it is merely an
instructor. It is a means to an end, not an end in itself.

This ties nicely in to a sermon preached at my church recently.

The Law functions as a tutor; as we grow in it, and mature in God's ways
and love, we no longer see it as a rigid checklist, but as a series of
commands that permeate all aspects of life, and ultimately, a guidebook
to practical ways for living out God's love.

The immature Christian is Javert, the mature Christian is Valjean.  
 The immature Christian seeks to follow the list of the law, down to the
letter; the mature Christian seeks to follow the message of the law, in
spirit and love.  
 The immature Christian seeks to shown as righteous above men; the
mature Christian is well aware of past and current sin, and grieves it
while rejoicing in God's mercy.

The immature Christian mimics Pharisees and Sanhedrin; the mature
Christian mimics Christ.

