---
layout: post
title: ! 'Review: Karate Kid'
permalink: Review-Karate-Kid
published: true
categories:
- reviews
---

Shocking! A movie review! What *is* this internet coming to?

I may review other items in the future, but for now, I'm reviewing the
recent Karate Kid remake. (Though on a nitpicky note, the protagonist
learns *kung fu*. Now that we've gotten that out of the way, let's move
on. *Please*.)

I was admittedly skeptical; I'd initially heard that Will Smith's kid
was co-starring with Jackie Chan as a Mr. Miyagi-alike in a remake and
that, in all horror, there was no waxing of either the on *or* off
varieties.

But the movie is good. It's fun, it picks up on the general plot and
theme of the original while remaining a distinct film.

Only one thing troubles me a bit: because the movie is based on Kung Fu
this time around, not Karate, we move two steps closer to bhuddism, and
a problem area familiar to Christian martial artists rears its ugly
head: the idea of *chi*.

It's only lightly mentioned; briefly touched on for a moment, then cast
aside in favor of the classic "clear your mind; focus" routine often
heard in Star Wars and the like. The movie even conscientiously
lampshades this fact: after Mr. Han (read: Miyagi) explains the idea of
chi, the protagonist Dre replies that it's "like the Force. You're Yoda,
and I'm like, a jedi."

But for its rather brief treatment in the movie, I thought I'd pick up
on the concept and explain it a bit more in-detail for those that may
not have heard of it.

It is, effectively, a diluted form of either bhuddism or pantheism. It
should sound similar to fans of the *Star Wars* series: there is a life
force that flows through everything, a flow of energy that can be
"tapped into" through training to grant some degree of harmony or
clairvoyance or the like.

All in all, it is a depressing and somewhat disturbing ideal. How
hopeless are we if the only divine element lies in the natural world?
There is in the idea no room for the eternal glory and love of the God
we serve.

Furthermore, if anything, *chi* is not derived from "all living things"
but from one foul destroyer: Satan. It is in my mind no coincidence that
the actual Chinese word "chi" can also be translated as "air"; the
"prince of the power of air" is indeed "at work in the sons of
disobedience" (Ephesians 2:2).

Chasing such deceptions will bring no peace or harmony; the only peace
can be found in Him whose yoke is easy and burden light. True peace lies
in knowing that it is an omnipotent loving God who controls all, not the
vibes one might pick up from a tree stump.

Reliance on *chi* is a sad and hopeless thought, and through media such
as Star Wars and the like, it has creeped its way into ubiquity;
Christians should be discerning.

But I think I've digressed; I've not written a very good movie review
thus far.

So, without too many plot spoilers for those somehow unfamiliar with the
original film: the movie is a very fun film to watch. The fight scenes
are wonderfully executed, and do well to hold the viewer's excitement
while still showing contrast between the merciless style of the
antagonist and the defensively-oriented style of the protagonist. Mercy
is shown as a virtue, and those who lack mercy are cast in a clearly
negative light. I found myself rooting for young Dre not only as a sort
of underdog, but also for the symbolic triumph of an even hand over
sneering arrogance.

I would indeed recommend the movie to others, but for Christians with
children, be prepared to discuss the more spiritual aspects.

