---
layout: post
title: Labels
permalink: Labels
published: true
categories:
- theology
---

Hi, my name is
Reformed-Calvinist-Christian-Conservative-White-Male-Programmer. What's
your name?

Sound strange? It's because as individuals, we don't introduce ourselves
by "labels", but by our name.

So why as Christians do we toss the name in favor of the labels?

Are we saved by Luther, that we should be called Lutherans? Was Calvin
offered up as a propitiation for our sins, that we should be called
Calvinists? Are we through the reformation brought into right standing
before God, that we should be firstly identified as reformed?

It's a commonly-criticized aspect of Christianity that the modern Church
is so divided --- there are more denominations than most non-Christians
care to count, let alone research.

It's not a new problem; this splintering tendency traces all the way
back even to the first-century church, when Paul faced it in the
Corinthian church he'd helped to plant. The Corinthian believers had
somewhere along the way taken to dividing themselves into factions ---
missing the point of the church body, and elevating their preferred
teachers to undue focus in worship.

> For when one says, "I follow Paul," and another, "I follow Apollos,"
> are you not being merely human?  
>  What then is Apollos? What is Paul? Servants through whom you
> believed, as the Lord assigned to each.  
>  I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth.  
>  So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God
> who gives the growth.  
>  He who plants and he who waters are one, and each will receive his
> wages according to his labor.  
>  For we are God's fellow workers. You are God's field, God's building.
> --- 1 Corinthians 3:4-9

Did you catch that? "He who plants and he who waters are one...we are
God's **fellow workers**." So why do we squabble amongst ourselves? Why
do we seem to prefer the theologian to God?

You prefer Zwingli to Calvin, or Calvin to Zwingli? Or neither? Do you
know **why**? Labels often serve to obfuscate a lack of knowledge. It is
comfortable to call yourself "Presbyterian" if it means you can find
others who do the same and never have to worry about challenges of the
faith.

Don't hide behind the label! Know what you believe!

And once you know what you believe, as you *study* the Scripture, you
will find that difference in theology should be all the *more* reason to
prefer the name that our ever-true God has given us over the name of one
of our fellow errant creatures.

> Fear not, for I have redeemed you;  
>  I have called you by name, you are mine....  
>  ...I will say to the north, Give up,  
>  and to the south, Do not withhold;  
>  bring my sons from afar  
>  and my daughters from the end of the earth,  
>  everyone who is called by my name,  
>  whom I created for my glory,  
>  whom I formed and made. --- Isaiah 43:1-2, 6-7

The name that God has given us brings security and peace, not ignorance
and squabbling.  
 Let us examine first our *top* priority --- Christlikeness --- before
arguing smaller things, lest we find ourselves like the Corinthian
church, to which Paul wrote:

> But I, brothers,a could not address you as spiritual people, but as
> people of the flesh, as infants in Christ.  
>  I fed you with milk, not solid food, for you were not ready for it.
> And even now you are not yet ready,  
>  for you are still of the flesh. For while there is jealousy and
> strife among you, are you not of the flesh and behaving only in a
> human way? --- 1 Corinthians 3:1-4

