---
layout: post
title: Salvation
permalink: salvation
published: true
categories:
- theology
- grace
- judgment
- sin
---

What is the gospel? Specifically, what is salvation?

 

It's the heart of the Christian faith -- the core unassailable doctrine.
But how much do we think about it?

 

I'd like to think about it some in this post.

 

Our ideas about salvation stem from our ideas about God and our ideas
about man. This is by definition -- salvation deals with the
relationship the two.

 

God is perfectly righteous -- in Him there is no sin (1 John 1:5; Psalms
5:4). God is perfectly-just -- in Him there is exact judgment upon evil
(Deuteronomy 32:4; Isaiah 28).

Man is inherently evil -- in him there is no good (Genesis 6:5; Romans
5:12). There is no desire for good. Of our own devices, we are as
Ephesians 2 says, "dead" in our sins. There is nothing alive in us that
can even wish to be good -- every intention of the heart of man is
*only* *evil continually*. There is no desire for good -- in our
only-evil state, there is nothing within us that can possibly seek
righteousness. We are wholly incapable of it (John 15:16)

 

This is where salvation comes in. Jesus Christ chose a people for His
own before creation based entirely on His mercy, not their merit (Rom.
8:29-30; Eph. 2:1-10). These people's sins He bore upon the cross,
accomplishing His work to remove from us the condemnation of our sins
that we might be in right standing with God (Rom. 8; 1 Timothy 1:12-17).

Without this saving work *of God's doing alone* -- unless God Himself
renews us -- we cannot even *know* what is good and right (Matthew
13:10-12; Ephesians 4; Ezekiel 36:22-36). We are incapable of wanting to
be saved not only because our every thought is evil, but because we
cannot of ourselves even *know* what is good.

 

It is for this reason that it is not unloving for God -- who *is* love
-- to supercede our bound will (enslaved to those things which are vile
and wicked) in order to bring us out of this inescapable darkness
through His power into His righteousness and light. This act of God is
not an assault by a malevolent force upon an innocent victim -- this act
is an act of taking an enemy by the hand and pulling them to safety --
and beyond safety, to an immeasurable stronghold of joy.

 

Salvation is the victim taking the criminal's sentence upon himself and
allowing no refusals of the gift. It is the creditor granted the debtor
not just forgiveness of debt, but also signing to his account an
immeasurable fortune.

 

Salvation is the perfect God taking upon Himself the full weight of all
the sins of those He has chosen to be His own and bear His name and
paying their sins in full to secure an eternal union between His people
-- despite their inability to produce anything but hatred and vitriol
towards Him -- and the infinitely-perfect, infinitely-loving, and
infinitely-just God.

 

That's salvation. It's the three-dollar-word that is worth infinity
itself.

