---
layout: post
title: The Maven
permalink: maven
published: true
categories:
- technology
- humor
---

> Once upon a midday dreary, while I coded, mind grown weary,  
>  Unit-testing logic for an XML transform,  
>  While I tested, keyboard tapping, XML to JSON mapping,  
>  Javascript in Java wrapping, wrapping all to test the core  
>  "mvn clean package", typed I into one of consoles four.  
>  Quote the maven: nevermore.  
>    
>  My screen displayed "assertion failed", and with stack traces on it
> wailed,  
>  My terminal the long log tailed, with this and with exceptions more. 
> 
>  Eagerly I searched subversion, hoping for a working version,  
>  Sought to find some type coersion to mitigate the the errs' rancour  
>  "Assertion failed", and nothing more.  
>    
>  Long into the afternoon with logs and comments I'd festoon,  
>  The code to try to make immune to bugs both new and seen before.  
>  As I fought the testing framework, beginning to redo the same work  
>  The logs shown in "svn blame" warped, fruitless commits that neared
> one score  
>  Quoth the maven: nevermore.  
>    
>  Then at last I found the function, the one last critical code
> junction  
>  That in my coffee-and-code unction I'd managed to so far ignore.  
>  It ran a SQL DB query which on that mind-worn midday dreary,  
>  With mind grown vexed and eyes gone bleary I had yet to e'en explore.
> 
>  The *database* I must implore.  
>    
>  Finding the elusive error -- missing records were my snarer --  
>  INSERTs made and confident that victory was sure  
>  I issued the commands that'd mocked me and from succesful builds had
> blocked me.  
>  What I saw with gladness shocked me -- the maven its complaints
> forswore  
>  "Build successful" - I won the war.

