---
layout: post
title: But God
permalink: but-god
published: true
categories:
- theology
- grace
- sin
---

I tend to lose perspective.

I know, on a "brain-deep" level, that I am to do everything without
complaining or arguing, as unto the Lord. I know that I serve an
all-good, all-sovereign, omnipotent God, who is actively working His
will -- the best of all possible designs for history. And I know that
His will involves refining me to make me better suited to honor Him for
Hist abounding grace.

 

But I often focus in on the small, temporal issues - "momentary light
afflictions," as James calls them - and I complain. A lot.

 

"But God," I grumble, "it's hot and I'm exhausted but we keep losing,"
missing the fact that the Creator of *everything* set aside a
Sabbath day for rest and for enjoyment of sports with friends. I feel
childish typing it out now.

"But God," I complain, "there are these finals and I might not make a
perfect grade," neglecting the provision of God to allow me to take
college courses at all -- let alone my total dependence on His strength
for any measure success in any aspect of life.

 

In my discontent, I declare the gifts and grace of the
perfectly-gracious God to be insufficient by my standards. I place
myself in judgment of the Most High Judge, and regard the Worthy One to
be unworthy of my thanks.

I forget that I am a sinner, deserving only of eternal condemnation --
and so disdain the Christ who bore that condemnation for me in a measure
of mercy unfathomable, choosing instead to add to the account of my sin
by my unbelief.

And of all the "but God" objections I raise, I miss the "but God" of
Scripture:

> But God shows His love for us in that while we were still sinners,
> Christ died for us.[Romans 5:8][1]

God, forgive me where I have spited You, and show me daily Your majesty,
that I might not forget it and may never cease to praise you.



[1]: http://esvbible.org/Romans 5:8
